- Philip, welcome back to Talk Python to Me.
Great to have you here.
- Thank you, thank you for the invite.
- Yeah, we're gonna talk about web things.
I love some web things.
We're gonna talk about async.
I love async.
And we're gonna talk about a lot of little cool things
you can plug into your web apps that make them more awesome.
And yeah, I think we'll give a lot of people
a lot of things to think about.
So yeah, let's do it.
So I guess quickly before we get into talking about Quart,
maybe a little catch up on where it's been
since the last time we spoke about that.
Give folks a bit of background on yourself
for people who don't know you.
- Sure, yeah.
I guess probably in this context
and maybe the people listening
are probably known for Quart and Hypercorn
and helping maintain the palettes libraries
like Flask and Virksug.
But well, outside of that,
I guess in my professional career,
I work as a software engineer in London.
I work for a company called Cureleaf International
and quite interestingly, 'cause it's not very well known,
we're one of the few companies
that do medical cannabis in the UK.
Not many people know it's legal.
But yeah, putting that aside.
So I've worked there for about a year and a bit now.
Before that, I worked at various other software firms.
And then before that, I was actually a particle physicist
working on an experiment out in Canada in a deep mine,
which was quite good fun.
- So you like your variety of your job, I can tell.
- Yeah, I had a definite career shift.
- Indeed.
Just a funny sidebar,
cannabis was legalized here
three or four years ago in Oregon.
There are more cannabis shops than there are Starbucks,
than there are McDonald's.
- Oh, wow.
- I could walk the floor from my house in five minutes.
It's nuts.
Anyway, it's very different
than it was a few years ago, for sure.
It's all fine, but just different.
All right, so court.
Court, like flask, kind of, but very interesting
in that it's got some other capabilities.
Tell people about court.
How's it relate to flask?
There's a lot of crossover.
You and David Lord are working pretty closely,
it seems like, on things these days.
- Yeah, so I started court about, I guess, seven,
maybe a bit more years ago now.
And the original idea was make flask async.
At the time, I couldn't figure out how to adapt flask
at all in that direction.
So I thought, okay, I'll start by just re-implementing
the flask API using a sinker weight.
And that's what court started out to be.
And over the years, David and I have worked
to try and merge the two together.
So the very latest change that's happened a few months ago
is we actually based court on flask now.
So there's a lot of shared code now.
And for a long time, court was based on Virksug.
And if you're familiar with the palettes
and flask ecosystem, flask is built on Virksug.
And court was, but now court is built on flask,
which is built on Virksug, and they're very, very similar.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
'Cause the more that you can share,
like the more you all can just focus on features.
- Exactly. - And make it better
rather than duplicating that effort.
- And the other aim is that the APIs,
well, the same as they can be other than a sinker weight.
So you can take your flask code base and move to court
just by adding a sinker weight.
That's the dream.
So yeah, even closer than it's ever been to that now.
- You're pretty close to be able to rename the word flask,
keeping the case sensitivity intact from flask to court
and it works, right?
- Yeah, in simple projects.
Yeah, the more complicated ones,
it comes down to the extensions,
which we're gonna talk about.
- Yeah, that's the whole topic of today, right?
- Yes, exactly.
But yeah, that's the aim.
Our long-term aim is to actually merge the two
and be able to say async flask.
Well, it's kind of the case now
where you can say async flask is court
and we can't quite do what Django has done
and put async Django as it is in Django.
Ours, you have to make a naming choice from the start,
but yeah, I think it's getting as close as we can get.
Maybe we'll figure out how to merge them in the future.
- Yeah, it'd be great if it just,
you could choose to use async def
or just regular functions for your views and flask
and not really think about--
- What you can't do that now.
- Okay.
- You've been able to do that for about two years, I think,
trying to figure out when we merged that.
So you could use either, it's just not as performant.
If your code base is gonna be mostly async,
you probably wanna switch to court fully
'cause it'd be more performant and more reliable and robust.
- Sure, why is that?
- But if not, it's a flask.
So the flask implementation will run your async code
on a separate thread.
So you get all that overhead of switching between the threads
sending the information over and back, et cetera.
- Right.
Does it run like an async IO event loop on the other thread,
but then--
- Exactly.
- Basically curry the results back and forth?
- Yep.
- And with court, it's running right on top
of an ASCII server.
- Yep.
- Straight, right?
- Yeah.
- Okay, yeah, that's super cool.
And you might be responsible
for one of the more prominent ones out there.
Tell people about what is an ASCII server
for people who don't know, why does it exist?
And then the one that you got.
- Yeah, sure.
So historically, there was the whiskey standard
which separated servers from frameworks applications
and kind of gave you a choice between
how do you wanna serve and deal with concurrency and stuff?
And then how do you want your API to build your apps,
the framework to be?
I think it was a great choice
'cause it made the ecosystem really nice for developers.
And ASCII is the same thing for async.
And so court is an example of an ASCII framework
and HyperCon is an ASCII server.
They originally together, much like Sanic started out as well
but then I split that out HyperCon into its own thing.
And then later on now HyperCon is also a whiskey server.
So yeah, in some respects,
HyperCon is just a general purpose server for Python.
- And so HyperCon, it lives in the same general usage base
as G-Unicorn and MicroWSGI, U-W-S-G-I, right?
So I could run it in production
in a kind of like a overseer mode
where you can fan out worker processes
and a system daemon, system deal, all that.
Is that where it's at?
- Yeah, it's exactly like that.
Yeah, and it also in the ASCII space,
it's similar to UVCorn or Daphne, that's it.
I think there's another, but I've forgotten the name just now.
- Yeah, I was just messing with some Docker stuff
and I was running the web app, a FastAPI app,
NG-Unicorn using UVCorn workers.
So handling the ASCII stuff that way.
Is it better to use HyperCon?
Is it rather than something along those lines?
A little more, maybe, or what do you think?
- I think it's a bit of a choice.
So how it differs from, well, UVCon in general is quicker
because it's HTTP parser, HTTP one parser is quicker.
And there's a few other choices
that tend to make it a bit quicker.
However, at least last time I checked,
UVCon doesn't support as many extensions as HyperCon
and it doesn't support HTTP/2 or HTTP/3.
Now, most people don't actually serve that directly.
They tend to have a load balancer in front,
but I tend to do that 'cause it's quite exciting.
So you're getting there with HyperCon.
And then after that, it's a bit of a choice
between what features do they both have,
what do you wanna use?
So they're fairly similar, I would say.
- Sure, okay, somewhat.
Up to you what you wanna choose,
but for people who have mental models,
maybe using UVCon, they could check out HyperCon, right?
- Yeah, yeah, so you wouldn't need GUnicorn
'cause HyperCon has the process model
that GUnicorn adds to UVCon.
And yeah, you can just switch over.
It should be a one-liner 'cause most of the time
it's just that one command line where you set this up,
right, so yeah.
- Yeah, very exciting.
I'm gonna give it a solid look
because I'm deep in that world right now,
playing with things, which is very exciting,
but not the topic for today.
So the topic for today is people who are interested
in doing Flask and Quart, especially Quart,
what are ways you can do more, right?
So the frameworks are pretty simple, right?
Of all the different APIs out there,
the Flask API has definitely won.
You know, even though there's many different
web frameworks, right, if you look at the way
programming works, you look at FastAPI,
you look at Lightstar, many of these things,
it's like you gotta create a thing called app
and then you say app.get and so on, right?
So this style of programming is really popular
and I think it's 'cause it's just straightforward
and simple, opposite of Django maybe.
Not so many batteries included, but you can add
the batteries through extensions, yeah?
- Yeah, exactly, I think that's always been
the trade-off between Django and Flask,
and well, I would say perhaps even Django and Quart
if you were to go Quart is, Django makes the choice
of your batteries to a large extent,
whereas Quart and Flask means you have to choose,
basically, yeah.
- Yeah, which is really nice if you've got,
like, you know, I would really rather use
this graph database for this thing
and I would really rather, you know,
like you get a lot of choice, but you have to,
you're gonna have to build a little bit more yourself
and you've gotta decide more yourself, so.
But with all these extensions, it starts to become easier
to click the Lego blocks back together, yeah?
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
- All right, so if you go, if people listening,
go to quart.palettesproject.com
and go in there and find the extensions.
There's a great long list of extensions
that we've got here that they can choose to run, right?
And how to do that and so on.
But you picked out a couple that you really wanna highlight
and we'll dive into them and if there's extra time,
maybe we can, you know, pick some more out of the list
and just see what we can make of them.
- Yeah, I think, I was gonna say,
I think the best one to start with
is the bit of discussion around an extension
called Quart Flask Patch,
which is a bit of a odd name
and I maybe need to think of a better name for it.
But the idea behind this extension
is it patches Quart at import time
to look very much like Flask.
So you can use some Flask extensions directly.
So this is again, the idea to make it easier
if you are so willing to transfer from Flask to Quart,
this would allow you to, an easier step
'cause you could add this one line, import Quart Flask Patch
and some of your Flask extensions would just work.
Now you've changed to Quart.
- That's awesome because there's a bunch out there.
So what happens when I run this?
Is it basically say like, okay,
there's a bunch of module namespaces called Quart this,
Quart that, let's create proxies called Flask
that just delegate into the Quart elements
and expose that back.
So code written against Flask dot whatever,
think it still exists.
- Yeah, exactly that.
Yeah, it does slightly more because what it also needs to do
is 'cause a lot of the Quart APIs are async.
It needs to wrap them in a wrapper
that allows it to be called synchronously,
but it needs to do so in a nested sense.
And I don't know whether you've looked much
into like nesting event loops in one another
or getting back to the same event loop.
It's a bit of a, I think it's fair maybe to call it
a bit of a hack, but it does work well enough
to allow you to buy that time to develop on,
but that's what it has to do, yeah.
- Yeah, I really wish that Python had an ambient event loop
that was the default.
This like, get me an event loop.
Oh, it doesn't exist in exception.
Oh, create an event loop.
Sorry, exception, it already exists.
Like, you know, there's like,
it's just really tricky to figure out kind of
deep down in some library, like, well,
am I in charge of this?
Is it already going?
And I gotta be part of something bigger.
If you could just say, just async run this,
you know, and just, you do that.
You need to make an event loop, make it.
If you don't need to make one,
just put it in the one that's already there, right?
Like, I really wish there was a little bit cleaner
story there, but you know, we're not gonna solve that
with Quart extensions.
- No, no, I mean, if they hadn't done that,
it would have made making Flask async a lot easier.
And you've probably come across the library.
I think it's Greenback.
- Greenback, no, this is new.
- So Greenback is a green lit,
like stack switcher based library
that allows you to get back to the event loop
when you're deep in some sync code,
which is quite nice in the sense that, you know,
it allows you to do all the stuff that's difficult,
but it's not so nice in that it's kind of hidden
in a way monkey patching type stuff
going on in the background.
But I think this is what SQLAlchemy uses
to get their async await supporting.
So it's certainly, yeah, I guess popular, yeah.
- Sure, reenter async IO or trio event loops
from synchronous code, very nice.
Cool, okay, so Flask patch,
that's pretty good if you just have some Flask code
and you're like, oh, I wanna switch to Quart,
but hopefully nothing changes
and I'll just run this at the beginning
and everything will work.
How often does that happen?
How often does it work out to be easy like that?
- So it depends on what the extension does.
So if the extension does its own IO
or calls certain Flask functions
that this extension can't patch,
then yeah, it just fails.
And yeah, so not all of them.
If you go into tests,
you can see an example of some of them
that we test against or I test against, sorry,
just to make sure they work.
- Login potentially.
- Yeah, so login is probably the most popular, I think.
So I don't think it works for SQLAlchemy, for example.
There's a technical example,
anywhere that uses app context
as a contact manager in a synchronous location,
basically that's too hard to patch.
So they tend to all fail, but yeah,
a few do and I hope it makes it easier for people.
I'm pretty sure it is used 'cause I get bug reports.
So some people find it useful at least.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It looks excellent, right?
So once you do all the magic,
you can just work with the login manager
and off it goes, right?
- Yeah, exactly that, yeah.
- Yeah, super cool.
Okay, Cores, everybody loves their cross-site or C++.
Everybody loves their cross-site origin scripting
restrictions.
I guess we do love it in the sense that
we're not getting our bank account stolen
while we browse the web,
but as a web developer, you're like,
oh, Cores again, I need to allow this thing to talk to that,
but it's, you know, right?
It can be a hassle.
And so I'm guessing Cores allows you control those settings
and expose them and so on.
- Yeah, exactly that.
I think it's become more prevalent, right?
Since the switch to kind of front-end frameworks
has been so popular, right?
'Cause you end up serving them,
well, typically you end up serving them separately,
but yeah, it's exactly as you described.
You can put decorators on routes
or you can put it on a blueprint or on the entire app
and you just say, this is a Cores policy for everything.
Yeah, very similar to Flask Cores, but different API.
- Even like a blueprint and say this whole section of code
is where the APIs live.
Things can call that, but nothing else.
That'd be really, that's really nice.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, okay.
Let me pull up some--
- So it also has a slight web,
'cause obviously Quark does web sockets whereas Flask,
at least natively can't,
but yeah, there's some web socket considerations
with Quark as well,
which mostly come around to checking the origin header,
but yeah, it does that as well.
- Okay, so you have a route
and you just put the @route_cores on it,
or like you said, a blueprint or on the whole app
or however you want,
but and then what kind of arguments does it take?
What can I ask it and make it do?
- Yeah, so I went for the kind of,
I guess, functional kind of API for it.
So you can put in like the allow headers
or the, what's the other one?
The credentials, I forget what it's called now,
but they're all listed
and all keyword arguments effectively to it.
There was in the issues, someone, a couple of,
maybe last year put out a new suggestion for a new API
for cores libraries that would be more intuitive,
but wouldn't match the actual headers that came out.
So at some point I hope to like look into that
and offer that as well.
But at the moment you basically say the header
and then the values you want.
So it's very, you have to really kind of know cores
to use it.
- I see, okay.
It just basically juggles the headers
and it's not a lot of abstractions in between.
- No, no, so I think in the readme,
it shows you them all actually.
So if you wanted to have a look there.
- Get back, yeah.
- If you go down a bit further, here we go.
- Oh yeah, there you go.
- So these are all the headers you can control
and it's basically the same name.
- Sure, so access control, allow origin,
access control, allow credentials,
expose headers, max age, all this,
all these things that you might wanna use, right?
- Yeah. - Very cool.
Okay.
Oh, you have types as well.
So that's lovely.
Are you a fan of types, type hints?
- I am, yeah.
Since it came out, I've not,
well, I've tried not to write untyped code, I think.
Especially in a team,
I think it makes a huge difference
to the understanding of the code.
So yeah, yeah, I'm a big fan.
- Yeah, I also think it makes your editors help you more.
You know, it knows what type that is.
And you say dot, it'll,
is this what you meant?
Like, yes, actually, I didn't know that existed,
but that's what I want, give that to me.
Without types, you're kind of like, well,
you know, you get object,
weird, useless stuff that you can't do anything with.
All right, so cores, if you need to do cores,
there's, I guess,
let me know how to do this,
but I think pretty much most of these that exist,
there's probably a Flask variant.
So if you use Flask and you're like,
oh, I need cores, but I don't use Court,
just Flask-Cores instead of Court-Cores.
- Yeah, yeah, I think it's quite well maintained,
the Flask one.
So yeah, the Flask-Cores, it's slightly different API,
but the concepts are all the same, obviously.
So yeah, not very much.
- Okay, all right, another one is Auth.
Auth means so many different things.
Is it a session type-based Auth?
Is it OAuth?
Is it, who knows what, YubiKeys?
What are we talking here?
- So this is, yeah,
session management via a secure cookie.
So it's a similar usage,
if you're familiar with Flask login,
but I didn't want to call it Court login
because it didn't really do anything with the login.
It didn't check the password or the username
or an MFA or anything to do with login, in my opinion.
So I called it Auth instead.
But yeah, so with this extension,
you tell it to log in the user
and give it some kind of identifier,
and it saves that information securely in a cookie for you.
And whenever the user comes back and presents the cookie,
it then pulls it out and turns it into
what is called the current user.
So I think it's called the current user
in Flask login as well.
So very similar to that.
- Okay, does it actually give you a user object back
or like an ID?
- Yep, you get a Auth user object,
but you can change that to your own class.
There's a, I think there's an Auth user class.
Oh, oh, the light's just gone.
Excuse me a second.
(laughs)
- It's absolutely dark in your room.
That's nuts.
Okay, don't worry, so hold on.
- Okay, I might be a bit,
'cause the light that was on my face
has just died for some reason.
That's a real shame.
So sorry about that.
I wonder if I can find somewhere so I'm a bit lighter.
I'll try something else.
It's a bit better, I suppose.
- Yeah, at least we can see you.
- Yeah.
- Sorry about that.
Did the light bulb break or something?
- It does seem to have just died, yeah.
I'm not really sure why.
- It doesn't happen as much as it used to, right?
Now we have like LED and other stuff that lasts longer.
- But if it was ever gonna die,
it would be now when I need it, so.
- Yeah, of course it would.
- That's guaranteed.
- Of course it would.
All right, no worries, no worries.
All right, so you get this Auth user back.
What is this Auth user?
It's not like out of your database, right?
It's some--
- Yeah, yeah, so by default,
it just has a method to say
whether the user is authenticated and to return their ID.
But if you customize it, if you extend it,
so what I typically do in my code base is I extend it
and I add methods to return a model
from the database, for example.
- Okay, yeah, very cool.
Nice, and there's a lot of fancy login off stuff,
but nice session cookie.
You know, it just works these days.
It still works really well.
- It does, yeah.
Much simpler than JDBTs and less likely to go wrong, I think.
- Yeah, I don't know.
It's not exactly related,
but I've had a lot of websites now
have given up on passwords,
but they don't use something new
or they just decided like every time
you wanna get to the site,
you just, we're gonna email you a code and you enter it.
It's like, when did that become the way
we're gonna log into everything?
It's driving me crazy.
So some good old username password,
we're gonna store your ID in a cookie.
- I've been-- - Warms the heart.
- But I've been playing with the web auth
and little USB keys and such recently.
I quite like it.
I think it might be a bit complex still.
It's a little tricky to get working,
but yeah, I think that's probably the future,
to be honest with you.
- Yeah, the site just sees like,
yeah, you got the right hardware thing, off we go.
Peter knows you're there, something like that, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Nice, okay, so people need to deal with users.
This is not about storing them in the database,
encrypting, hashing their passwords
or those types of algorithms.
It's really just about the web browser exchange
that involves setting a cookie when you're logged in
and getting it back and make sure
it's not tampered with, right?
- Yep, exactly that, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, so what it does is it stores the value,
like here, the number two is the ID for the user.
So it stores that in the cookie in plain text,
but then cryptographically signs it.
So you don't wanna store anything sensitive in the cookie
if you're worried about it being read,
but you can store identifiers, et cetera,
and know that it hasn't been tampered with.
- Yeah, that's the thing.
It's not gonna harm you to know
that your user ID is two or 75117 or whatever,
but if it's two, what's to stop somebody from going,
let me change that to a three and see what happens.
Oh, look, I'm an admin, how cool is that?
Right, that's the problem
that you're trying to solve with secure, right?
- Exactly, yeah.
- Yeah, cool.
From my side, I bake that thing in myself,
but having an extension that just does it,
that sounds better.
- Yeah, so the nice thing,
well, I took a bit of interest.
I think it's changed now with Flask login,
but a couple of the areas where I wanted to improve
is it does same site settings on the cookie by default.
So it'll start with the strict,
and then you can play around and go down to lax
if you so need, but it also has the special,
it allows the special host,
you know, the double underscore host prefixes on the name
and stuff like that.
Although I don't think in reality
that adds that much to your security,
but it's kind of a safety net in some respects.
- Yeah, sometimes, well, also it becomes a hassle
when you're doing development
'cause your host is local host,
and you're saying it has to be on mysite.com,
and like, well, I can't log in anymore,
so then you've got to have local host,
and then, I don't know,
it doesn't feel super tamper resistant to me either.
Are you familiar with securepy?
There we go.
- Yeah, so this, that's a lot of-
- This is an interesting project too.
Oh, it's archives.
Oh, sadly.
Is there a new one?
No, but I think it still works.
I'm not sure what, it's been deprecated.
Yeah, mostly fresh.
Okay, well, I guess that's not being used as well,
used that much, but it used to be a way
to kind of set all those different things, I believe.
Or is this a different, this is a totally different-
- I thought you were going to say secure headers,
I think, is it called that?
- I think, oh, I think it's just called secure,
is what it is.
Yeah, that's the one.
So, sorry, that was some other random thing
that we found that was called securepy, but not.
This thing is still alive, right?
And supports Court, which is why I brought it up
amongst like lots of other frameworks.
But yeah, you're going to tell people about this.
This is cool.
- Yeah, yeah, so, I mean,
I pretty much end up adding all of these by hand.
So yeah, most of the headers you want to add,
and if you ever do a pen test, right,
they're going to, if you don't have these headers
by default, there's going to be a finding straight away.
So yeah, you just add all the ones you want, really.
- Right, for one of the ones that you might not think of
that you should probably have,
unless you have a really specific use case,
is what if somebody created a site,
you know, you had service.com
and they had service.io or whatever,
and they bought that,
and then they could put your,
whatever their URL is,
just into your site as a 100% width and height iframe, right?
And then they just capture all the keystrokes.
It's like, huh, you're typing into your thing.
It looks like your thing, your data is there.
You don't want people to do that to your site
or just randomly host your site in their site.
So for example, this secure thing will set X frame options
to same origin.
So you can't embed.
Your site can no longer be embedded by default.
You've got to choose to let it be embedded.
All those kinds of things, right, are really nice here.
- Actually got caught out by that many, many years ago.
I built an image photo editor in the browser
and it started to get quite a lot of use.
And I was like, oh, this is great.
And then I realized it was on somebody else's domain,
basically in an iframe.
- They're like, look at our amazing editor
that we're getting Google AdWord money for or whatever.
Right? - Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, so a little bit of a header action
will shut that stuff down.
But I mean, I didn't know how to do it
until I kind of dug into it more, right?
Or you find out your site somewhere else.
- I think it's like a lot of it seems to be,
yeah, learn with experience, I guess, isn't it?
- Yeah, exactly. - Or on the job.
- That only happens once when you see your web app
in somebody else's site embedded as an iframe.
You're like, no, this is not gonna be okay.
Awesome, all right, so that was court auth
as well as a secure thing.
Next, I guess kind of related to security, maybe.
- All right, I would say so.
- Believe me, someone, rate limiting.
- Yeah, 'cause I mean, on a login route,
you'd wanna put a rate limiter on straightaway
to stop any kind of brute forcing anyway, right?
- Oh, absolutely.
And the ability to do really nice rate limiting
in ways that punish the rate limit breaker
is so much easier on async things like court, right?
Because if you don't wanna be overwhelmed by them,
a lot of times you just say, you send them
some kind of response code item
or the status code is like too many requests
or something like some four.
- 429.
- Yeah, there you go.
You can just send them back straightaway,
but there's no cost for them to receive that 429.
They're just like super quick going.
If you wanted to say,
because maybe they're trying to guess passwords
or something, you're like,
let's not let them guess so quickly.
So you can sleep and then respond to them
in 10 seconds later.
So it's like, oh, well, I don't know.
Is the password good or not?
Why don't you wait around for a while
instead of going somewhere else?
With a async IO based website,
that's await asyncio.sleep,
nearly zero cost to you other maybe an open socket, right?
And you can just like send them to sort of time black holes,
super easy.
Whereas like a WSGI app,
you're blocking a request and you can only handle so many
and all that kind of stuff, right?
- Yeah, so this one sadly doesn't do any of that fun.
- It doesn't have punishment built into it.
(laughing)
- Tell us how it works and what it does.
- I was gonna say, I think there was an article today
suggesting you should serve zip bombs or something
to like unpleasant requesters,
but yeah, it doesn't do any of that.
- Yeah, send them like a hundred gigs back.
- So this-
- That would be good, actually.
- Yeah, so this one implements rate limiting
as it's defined, like a user would be allowed
to do so many requests in a certain time.
And also implements the RFC for the like headers
that you're supposed to send back
when they go over the rate limits.
So they know when they can,
or when the client can then request again.
So-
- I see, like you've made too many,
rather than just saying too many requests,
try again later, you're like,
and you'll be reset in five minutes
or like there's a proper way to communicate that.
- Yeah, yeah.
But the thing I find really interesting about this,
which I don't know if everyone does,
but I'll say anyway,
but most people implement rate limiting
like a leaky bucket or something like that.
These are the standard algorithms.
And typically that requires you to store two variables
per key, per rate limit you're looking at.
But there's a,
I think it's not a very well-known algorithm
called the generic cell rate algorithm.
I think that's right.
And this allows you to store one algorithm,
one variable per rate limit.
And it's really quite nice, the algorithm.
It's very, when you get it,
it's really intuitive and clean.
You basically, what you store is when you expect
the next request to arrive.
And if the request arrives too early,
then you just rate limit it.
And yeah, it's really clever, I think.
So I'd like more people to know about it basically,
'cause it's a really nice solution.
- It's a great solution, yeah.
So this, it doesn't slow them down.
It just tells them that they've gone over the limit
in this particular one, right?
- Yeah, so-- - If you expect it
to be in five seconds, you don't just sleep for four
and then let it in.
- No, no, so the idea is that this decorator
is much less costly in terms of your compute
than your function, your handler.
So this decorator will just send back a 429 very quickly
and never touch your route instead.
- Sure.
Okay, interesting.
I'm starting to think about maybe
if you have a Sink and Await available
and your algorithm told you when the next one was coming,
you could just sleep them until the next one's allowed,
potentially, if it wasn't 10 minutes, right?
That would be-- - Potentially.
The client would, I mean, it depends on your rate limits,
but there's a good chance the client would time out, right?
- Right, it'd have to be like five seconds
or something real short, right?
I don't want more than one request a second
type of rate limiting, not like five per hour,
'cause then they would definitely time out.
- Yeah, there's a lot of things you can do with this.
So basically the way it works for people listening
is you can set it up on the app,
so the entire app itself,
all the requests to it are limited, right?
Or you can go and put kind of like tenacity.
You can put the decorator exactly on a particular endpoint
and then set the details for that one, right?
- Yep, so a bit like calls, you can do it per app,
per blueprint, or per route, depending on what you need.
- Okay, and here you say rate limit one
and then a time delta, what's the one?
- It's the count.
So you might want, so for a rate of one per second,
you might want to express that as 10 per 10 seconds,
so it would be instead of the one, the 10.
And that allows you a bit of bursting, if you will,
so that 10 can come in one second
or it can be spread over.
So yeah, it allows you to express the rate limits
in different ways, really.
- Guessing this probably bypasses the static files.
Is that true?
- If you do the default limits,
I think that applies to static files as well.
- Yeah.
- I can't remember now, but I think that's what it does.
- You might have six CSS files, 20 images, and so on, right?
And like one page request might blast us all back super quick.
- Yeah, yeah, you certainly want a higher limit.
- Yeah, but presumably you're using something like Nginx
or whatever, or maybe even a CDN,
and then all those other things I described
don't actually go through the Python app, ideally.
- Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it does work if you do it for the Python app as well.
So up to you, I think, yeah.
- Indeed.
All right.
WTForms, next up, QuartWTF.
What is this?
- So this was, I'm tempted to say
it's been a bit less popular recently
with the front-end frameworks and stuff.
But when you did template rendering,
you'd render the form,
then you'd do the validation in your Python framework
for that form, and you pass back the errors.
And basically, the WTF framework
would do a lot of that for you.
So you could just put in, like in your template,
an input box, and it would do the errors
and do the, like you can see here,
you could do the CSRF tokens
and render all the HTML for the labels
and the actual input boxes
and get it all hooked up very easily.
And that's what it does, yeah.
It does all that.
And the validation, when it comes to the back-end as well,
I think you can just do form.validate on submit
or something like that.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, there we are.
And that's it.
That's your whole validation.
So it saves a lot of effort, really.
- Yeah, that's pretty handy.
I'm guessing you're getting generally generic HTML
out on the client side
so you can CSS style it up while you like.
- Yeah, I think it's, I can't remember exactly.
I think WTF might have hooks
so you can put styling directly in.
But yeah, it's pretty generic as I remember it.
- Yeah, some frameworks require explicit stuff
on say the input box,
like form-control would be bootstrap
and things like that, right?
There's probably some way to set a class.
- Yeah, I think there's a class name argument.
I'm trying to, I may have misremembered that.
I think it was called class name.
- Yeah, sure.
Nice.
Yeah, I haven't used this really,
but I've used it, something kind of like it in framework,
other frameworks.
In the end, I ended up just going back to writing my own HTML
because I felt like I was getting 60% help
but maybe 30% struggle to fight the system.
You know what I mean?
And then like, all right, you know what?
I just know this stuff well enough.
I'm just gonna do it myself.
But if you don't wanna mess with it,
you want some sort of quick development type of thing
or maybe you're not super familiar with HTML,
this will definitely help, right?
- Absolutely, yeah.
I think you can also write your own HTML instead
and just let it do the Python validation part.
- If you so wish.
- As long as it lines up, yeah, sure.
- Yeah, yeah.
I think it's just the name that matters.
Like your input has to have the right name.
'Cause the CSRF--
- I didn't know, right?
It couldn't know.
- Yeah, exactly.
I was just gonna say the CSRF part is quite easy and nice.
That just puts a hidden input in with the token in
and it's all taken care of for you.
So that can be quite nice.
- Yeah, excellent.
All right, schema.
- So schema--
- For APIs, right?
- Yeah, so it's possibly the kind of more,
I'll say modern, but I'm not sure if that's the word I mean.
But yeah, so as an industry,
we seem to have moved away from the forms of old
and form data to sending JSON all the time, right?
And Quartz schema is about saying,
I expect this structure to arrive, validate it for me.
So it's a very similar,
it's very similar to FastAPI,
which I'm sure a lot of people know.
- Okay, that's pretty interesting.
- So like I say, very much like FastAPI,
it kind of brings in some frameworks called model binding,
where you can say there's an argument and it's of this type.
And then like a class,
a data class or something along those lines,
and it'll, here's a data class,
and it'll take all the inputs, right?
Query strings or route parameters, whatever,
and parse them and map them in there,
and then just give you an object and go,
here, it's right here.
- Yeah, so for this library, it supports,
I've used all the documentation as data class,
but it's by Pydantic based at the moment.
And because of the, it's not actually the typing,
so there's no dependency injection
or anything like that with FastAPI,
but it uses the decorator validate request
and you pass it the model.
And if the request that arrives
can be turned into that structure and validated as such,
then your function will be called
and that'd be passed in as data.
If it can't, then the class will be called.
- Passed in as data.
If it can't, then the client will get a 400 response.
- Bad request, bad data.
- Exactly, yeah.
- Okay, what's the, so validate request,
makes sense to me.
It means like, here's your structured object that comes in,
passed in as data.
What's validate response?
- So it's the same concept, but going back.
So if you return like a to do class instance itself,
then there's no validation to do, right?
You've already said it's the right structure,
but often you'd return a dictionary
or something like that, right?
And expect it to go back as JSON.
What this will do is it will say,
I'll check that dictionary is of the right structure.
And if it isn't, it throws a 500 response to the client
and an error that you can go and view
in whatever error monitoring tool you've got.
- Sure, okay, that's excellent.
So I see you have data classes here
and you said it also works with the Pydantic.
- Yeah, so, well, actually a shout out
to one of your previous recent streams
is I'm working on message spec support at the moment
'cause I actually quite like that.
So-- - Message spec,
that's interesting.
- So it will support Pydantic and message spec.
So you'd be able to use Pydantic, data classes,
attas, message spec stuff,
well, the message spec struct.
I think that's probably all of it,
but yeah, quite a bit choice there.
- Yeah, the struct classes really,
they've done some super interesting things here
to make these data classes almost better for performance
than even regular, and for memory and stuff,
than regular Python classes.
It's quite impressive.
- Yes, absolutely, yeah.
- Yeah, for people who don't know,
maybe just tell them real quick what message spec is.
They probably know data classes in Pydantic.
- Yeah, so much like data classes,
and you can see here, it's a nice,
simple way of creating a class
with various things created for you.
But it also, much like Pydantic,
will do validation when you try,
if you use one of its functions to convert raw data
like a dictionary into this type.
And much like Pydantic as well,
it also gives the ability to take this model
and turn it into a open API,
the JSON schema definition.
And that's the final thing that Quartz schema does
is once you've decorated all your routes,
it will auto-generate a open API definition for you as well.
- Oh, well, okay.
Yeah, using Swagger/Docs.
Okay.
I think that's really nice, right?
Like a lot of APIs just don't,
they're like, "We're not gonna do that."
Yeah, if they don't have something automated to do it.
And having typed classes representing all your inbound
and outbound data, pretty easy, right?
- Yeah, I mean, it really helps with mypy, right?
'Cause instead of having like your request.data
or something like that, which is some dict
that as far as mypy concerns can be anything,
it must be a to-do instance in this function now.
So yeah, really helps with your type checking.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, what do we got next?
Sock from Miguel Grimberg, Flask WebSockets.
- Yeah, so this one, there is an extension for,
because this is one of the areas
that Quark being natively async can just do itself.
So a quarter, I think I described sometimes
as a superset of Flask.
'Cause it can do everything Flask can do.
- The C++ of Flask.
(laughing)
- Yeah, exactly.
- Awesome.
So WebSockets kind of solve a problem
that websites generally have not been able to do.
Like once you make a request,
usually there's the response and that's it.
But what if the server,
you wanna send more stuff to the server,
server wants to send stuff out to you later.
Like I started this job three seconds later,
now it's done.
Or this bidirectional exchange is really cool.
But a lot of times I feel like it's a little over the top.
Like a lot of times I think people maybe just want
push notifications from the server and not true.
Like let's have a conversation.
I just need to know when this happens.
Just let me know as soon as it's done.
- Yeah, so you said.
- Yeah, go ahead.
- I was gonna say,
server sent events,
server sent events, sorry,
seem to be not that well known,
but yeah, probably described your usage really well.
- That's exactly what I was getting at.
So does core support SSE?
Does it support server sent events?
- Yeah, yeah.
I think there's an extension for it,
but in reality it's a very small bit of code you need.
So it, yeah, I mean,
'cause you literally return a response
with a certain header and then you just return a,
well, here we go.
Here's the, there's an example in the documentation
for core, but you just return a certain data structure
and then you've got it, yeah.
- Yeah, so I think that's,
when people say they want WebSockets,
I think most of the time this is what they want.
They want the client,
the server to call the client sometimes,
not just the other way around.
- Yeah, so I'm gonna go slightly off topic
'cause it's not that interesting,
but it's related to this,
but one of the things I implemented in the Hypercorn
'cause I find it really interesting is,
I think two, no, it must be more like four years ago,
they introduced WebSockets for HTTP/2.
And of course, one of the reasons you want WebSockets
because the cost of opening a connection
for HTTP/1 is fairly expensive.
So you can keep it open and do the bidirectional.
But with HTTP/2,
you don't even need an extra connection anymore.
You can have your WebSocket stream
on the same connection as all your requests as well.
So it's really nice and efficient.
So yeah, I'd love to have an opportunity
to make more use of it
'cause I find it really interesting,
but the code I write professionally at the moment
doesn't quite need that level of real-time interaction.
- I know, I know.
All the stuff I build, I'm like,
"Oh, that would be so fun,"
but you know, I just don't need that.
- Yeah, exactly.
- I just have no use case.
I mean, there are apps, I'm sure, that do it, right?
Like really complicated single-page apps
like StreamYard that we're using right now, for example.
This has probably got some crazy interchange going on,
but I don't write these kinds of apps either.
All right, let's see.
So, the Socket stuff, which is cool.
That's, like you said, built into Court.
That's one of the advantages of it,
but you can use Miguel Grimberg's stuff to add it to Flask.
SQLAlchemy, you mentioned them before.
Probably outside, if you're not in the Django space,
it's not the only option, for sure,
but it's probably the de facto choice people,
when they think, "I want an ORM for a relational database,"
you probably start here, right?
- Yeah, I think you would, yeah.
And this is a port, as I understand it,
of the Flask SQLAlchemy extension
to work with, or natively work with Court.
So, it should match all your expectations, I think.
And if you're used to it, you just use this
and it works with Court, and there you go.
- Mm-hmm, let's see an example here.
So, you can set up your database
with a pretty interesting nested type of construct here,
like just passing rich arguments that take more.
And if you look at the code on there,
just the shape of the code is kind of unique here,
but you end up with this constructed database thing,
and then it has the base model class,
and off you go, right?
You just create a session from it, do all the things.
I've always had mixed feelings about these things
that you set up here that are built
like into the web frameworks, potentially,
that make them part of the request.
'Cause if you're gonna go and write little scripts
that also do data stuff, you wanna be able to get access
to the data and the models over there as well.
All this looks like it does take the app there,
but I don't know if it really needs a meaningful app.
Like, I don't think that it would use it, probably.
But it just-- - No, I don't think
you need to be within an app context to use the DB.
I may be wrong there, but yeah,
I think you could probably use it in a script, yeah.
- Sure, yeah, that's the only thing that concerns me
about these database helpers is like,
you know, I need to do database stuff
outside of a request as well.
Even potentially some of the stuff
that we're gonna talk about in a minute,
like it's just a background task.
That's not part of an actual request,
but it could even still be in the web server process, right?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I use, there's an extension called QuarkDB,
which is my preference, 'cause I prefer to write the SQL
than go down the ORM route.
And yeah, that works as you'd expect.
You still set it up and pass it the app,
which I think is true of this.
But then you can just use it without an app context.
It just basically uses the app
to get the configuration values
so it knows where the database is.
- Got it, okay.
Interesting.
And now we're on to probably the biggest one
that you wanna talk about,
which is quite exciting, Quark tasks.
- Yeah, so this is a very recent release
that I haven't announced anywhere else yet,
but this is something, I think I read a post recently
that said, for your web framework,
you need like five things.
Like you need a database connection,
you need some kind of validation, input/output,
rate limiting, authentication,
and you need a way to run periodic tasks.
And in the past, my way to do this was extra infrastructure.
So it was cron running somewhere or some kind of,
I think clouds watched as some kind of event generator
based on a cron schedule.
And for me, that's just annoying
'cause now I have to build extra infrastructure,
which I don't need.
- Maybe not Celery or RabbitMQ or something like that, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
But again, with those,
you need that extra infrastructure for it to work.
- It's another server,
it's another thing that could get hacked.
You gotta patch it, you gotta secure it,
you gotta know how to run it.
It could go down and then none of your background stuff
works anymore.
It's all a hassle, even though it has a benefit.
- Yeah, yeah.
So what I really wanna do is make use of the async event
loop and just run a task in the background periodically.
And obviously at some point in this one,
normally on a scale,
'cause I have so many background tasks,
they dominate the server and stop it doing requests.
But while I'm small and I'm starting out,
this just makes life so much easier.
- Absolutely.
It totally does.
And because everything's async and await,
you can just set up the task and just await the task.
And it just blends in hopefully well
with all the web requests, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
So for core tasks,
if you write your task as async def,
then it will run it in the event loop.
But if you write it as a def, it will run it on a thread.
So if you have synchronous code
that's gonna block the event loop,
like you're using traditional IO
to want for one of the better phrase,
then if you just use def,
it will run it on a task,
won't block your event loop,
and you'll be fine.
So yes, it's nice in that respect.
- Yeah, and as long as your async pieces
are fine grained enough,
you probably won't know, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, it's just if you run a whole bunch
of synchronous code or something like that,
you might start to clog things up,
but don't do that.
Honestly, like what I find anyway on the web most of the time
is you're talking to other things,
talking to a database,
talking to a cache,
talking to an API,
all those things are like perfectly suited for a wait
because it's most of the time
you're almost outside the web app.
- Yeah, I think the perfect one for this
that I keep thinking of
is when you wanna send a periodic email,
like a reminder or a summary of the day,
just write this decorator task run
and you have your function that just sends emails.
It's, yeah, that's why it exists for me.
It makes that so much easier.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Right, yeah, like you say,
just send out a quick email like,
"Hey, I need to reset my password."
All right, here we're gonna send you,
call an API like SendGrid or something like that.
We're gonna send you,
but you don't wanna block things up.
You just kick that onto the background work
and off it goes.
So one of the things that people would say,
all right, you guys,
I know you're excited about async,
but we need durability.
What about, what if the server goes down
or what if another potential issue is
what if you scale, like at least the cron stuff,
like what if you fan out your web app
into like 10 worker processes
and you say run in five seconds
and they all run in five seconds,
10 times or those kinds of issues here.
- So this extension supports a couple of extensions to it.
So you can pass it a custom store,
which allows you to store when the task last ran.
And so that means if the server goes down
and it misses an invocation,
then when it comes back up,
it will recognize that and run the test straight away
rather than wait till the next time.
And the other thing it supports is
you can decide what should happen before the task starts
and what should happen after.
So this allows you to put some locking in
for your second case.
In both cases, the reason it's not built in to core tasks
is you'll need to decide where you store this information,
where do you store the lock, where do you store the...
So usually a database works for that.
So yeah, so you can add it all,
but you've got to choose how yourself.
- That's cool that it has placeholders
and ways to plug that in.
That's what I was thinking of, right?
Like instead of just storing it in memory
and throwing it on the queue,
put it into the database and have the task
just check the database and go,
okay, I'm working on this one.
No one else do this.
We don't want to send 10 emails to the person.
- Oh yeah, so it's not a job queue.
Although I've been thinking about that recently.
So yeah, it can't be like,
it doesn't work in the sense that a job will run once,
it will do jobs periodically.
- Got it, okay, so more of a scheduler.
- Yes, yeah.
- Yeah, so I need to see if anyone's uploaded files
to this location and then convert it from PNG
to WebP or like safe space or-
- Or you could be like every morning,
I want to send out an email to the users and say,
imagine it's a to-do app
'cause everyone uses that as an example
and say, these are your tasks for the day
or something like that.
- Sure, the people who've signed up for the daily digest,
send them their digest, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, very cool.
And because it's on a background thread,
it's not gonna harm anything.
Excellent, okay, well, it looks pretty simple again,
very decorator driven, right?
- Yeah, so I mean, with all of these,
the extensions that they start for it
and I've tried to follow the kind of Flask conventions
for better for worse, so yeah.
- It definitely feels native.
Yeah, it feels like if you're already doing Flask or Quart,
you just know what to do, it's just similar.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Excellent, all right.
Well, I think we've covered all the ones
we explicitly said,
let's make sure we get a chance to cover those.
I definitely wanna encourage people
to check out the Quart extensions page
'cause there's quite a few more.
I'll see if maybe some jump out at me here
that are kind of cool.
- Quart-
- Briefly.
- Yeah, go ahead.
- I was gonna say, we briefly mentioned QuartDB,
which is one I maintain,
so I could say a bit more about that if you're so interested.
- Yeah, sure, and it's hanging out right here in your list.
So this is much like the SQLAlchemy one,
it's a way to connect to a database,
but unlike the SQLAlchemy way,
it doesn't promote an ORM,
rather it just gives you a connection
that you can run SQL on.
I don't know you can do that with SQLAlchemy,
I just, I mean, typically that's not what people do.
So in this case, like the example here is
you pass it the URL you wanna connect to
and it supports Postgres and SQLite at the moment,
and then in the roots,
you have this g.connection object that you can make use of,
and you can make use of that in background tasks
and it's quite easy to make use of it
actually in Quart tests as well,
it's just a little snippet you need to do.
But yeah, and that's it,
you get a connection that you can do whatever you want with.
- Yeah, okay.
Very nice way to just have everything set up right,
like you don't have to worry about passing things around
and create a transaction, go do your things, right?
Excellent.
What else jumps out here?
We got Quart events for broadcasting
server sent events and WebSockets.
- There is one, yeah.
- Yeah, another one that's cool is minify,
like minifying all of your elements, right?
CSS, JavaScript.
- Yeah, I've been doing that
at the build stage a lot recently.
There's a little snippet I can share
if people want for Quart
where you change the static function,
so it will serve a gzipped version of the static file
over the un-gzipped one if the client will accept it.
And yeah, then if you do it build time,
'cause I think this one,
and it might be a mistake,
but I suspect it works at runtime,
so it compresses at runtime.
- It sounds like it does, yeah.
Let's see.
It talks about doing it as a response, right?
So yeah.
Oh, it does have a cache though.
- Ah, okay.
Yeah, we get similar.
Yeah, very similar to what I'm suggesting then.
- Excellent.
Now, those are really, really handy.
If people go and they wanna make their website better,
check out, gosh,
I guess PageSpeed.
- Oh, the Lighthouse.
- Lighthouse is what I was gonna call it, yeah,
but they renamed it to PageSpeed.
So you go put in,
let's see.
Then talk Python and see how we're doing.
But it'll give you things like,
how is your site fast enough?
Let's see how the desktop one's doing, right?
And it'll give you a score and, you know,
are we gonna index you well,
or are you gonna be punished
for having some kind of crappy experience?
And this minification stuff that we're talking about
can help there, right?
- Absolutely, yeah.
- Similar to your DB, your QuarkDB,
we have QuarkMotor,
which is the async database access library for MongoDB.
So I suspect it's super similar.
I haven't used it 'cause I use Beanie,
which is like ORM style.
So kind of on top of those things.
Key Cloak is interesting.
Redis also is pretty interesting.
Uploads, let's finish it out with Uploads.
We'll call it after that.
So I haven't used this,
but uploading files can always be a bit of a hassle, right?
But yeah.
- So it looks very similar to the Flask uploads one.
So it's kind of a nice wrapper
around how you get access to the files you've uploaded
and what you do with them kind of thing, yeah.
- Yeah, that can be a little bit of a hassle, right?
So you got your request.files and all that.
Okay, cool.
I don't know how to use this thing,
but I know that people kind of struggle
uploading files a lot, so.
- Yeah, I don't tend to actually write it that much
come to think of it, but yeah,
it just makes it easier.
- Yeah, exactly.
Profile, profile pictures maybe,
it's like that kind of stuff I'd be doing.
But yeah, anyway, I guess I've wrote some code
that lets you upload MP3s at one point for podcasts,
but I stopped using it, so it's not top of mind anymore.
Anyway, excellent, excellent stuff here.
I love just going through and seeing
all these little pieces,
these little building blocks you can bring together
and just quickly build an app.
So thanks for being on the show
and telling everyone about it.
- Oh, thank you, thank you, yeah, great.
Hopefully opportunity to introduce some stuff
that I hope people will find useful.
- Yeah, and just more broadly,
like thanks for working on Quart and pushing that forward.
- Yeah, I mean, like I said, our aim is hopefully,
well, we're kind of going around in different ways
of how we'd actually might merge Flask and Quart,
but yeah, that's still the ultimate aim.
I kind of think, 'cause of the limitations
we were talking about earlier about running async code
when you're deep in a sync code base,
I think you'll always have to make a choice with Flask
where if you're gonna be mostly sync, you go Flask.
If you're mostly async, you go an async Flask
or whatever it's called,
which at the moment it's called Quart.
We might be able to put them in the same code base perhaps,
so then you can maybe mix and match
'cause you can certainly run Flask and Quart together
with Hypercorn as a server
and just have what's called
the dispatch middleware layer in between
that says for these routes, it goes to Flask
and for those routes, it goes to Quart.
So yeah, there are lots of ways to do it,
but it depends what you wanna do really.
- Yeah, that's interesting.
Maybe you could even create a different app
instead of app equals Flask,
it's app equals async Flask, who knows?
- Yeah, I mean, that's effectively what Quart is.
I mean, I could have called it async Flask at the start.
(laughing)
- A Flask, yeah.
It ranks higher in the alphabetical sortings.
- Yeah.
- All right, so people are excited with Quart.
Maybe it's back on their radar
now that we've been talking about all these extensions.
What do you tell them?
How do they get started?
What do they do?
- Oh, I mean, you can just pip install Quart
and the quick start is as simple and familiar
as it's ever been for Flask.
You just do app equals Quart
and then app.get or app.whatever
and then your function below to handle it.
- Awesome.
Yeah, the selling point is basically
if you know Flask, you know Quart.
You just use the word async some of the time.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, even the WebSocket support,
I've tried to make it as familiar as it would be
if you had new Flask.
So instead of using the global request,
you now use the global WebSocket.
So there's WebSocket.headers
and you can do WebSocket.send,
send a message, that kind of stuff.
So hopefully it just feels familiar.
- Yeah, fantastic.
I'm sure it does.
And thanks for being on the show
and nice to have you back.
- Thank you. - I'll catch you next time.
- Yeah, you bet.
[BLANK_AUDIO]